[Manifest][Updates][1636465] (#2931)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md

# Reference: Manifest schema for Microsoft Teams

The Teams manifest describes how the app integrates into the Microsoft Teams product. Your manifest must conform to the schema hosted at [`https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/v1.9/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json`]( https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/v1.9/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json). Previous versions 1.0-1.4 are also supported (using "v1.x" in the URL).

The following schema sample shows all extensibility options.

## Sample full manifest

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/v1.9/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json",
  "manifestVersion": "1.9",

>   "version": "1.0.0",

Reviewer: The current app manifest doesn't have incorrect sample for defaultInstallScope and defaultGroupCapability. It should be something like this:

  "defaultInstallScope": "meetings",
  "defaultGroupCapability": {"meetings": "tab" , "team": "bot", "groupchat": "bot"}

    "meetings": "tab", 
    "team": "bot", 
    "groupchat": "bot"

>     },

Reviewer: This is not needed, please review it.

```

***

## defaultInstallScope

**Optional** - string

> Specifies whether the scope offers an experience in the context of an individual user alone (personal), a team, a groupchat, or meetings. Options are:

Reviewer: Could you please change it to following? 

Specifies the install scope defined for this app by default. This will be the option displayed on the button when a user tries to add the app.  Options are:

* `personal`
* `team`
* `groupchat`
* `meetings`

## defaultGroupCapability

**Optional** - object

> Specifies the default capability for each collaboration scope your app supports. Options are:

Reviewer: Could you please help to change this?

When a group install scope is selected, this will define the default capability when the user installs the app.

* `meetings`: `tab`
* `team`: `bot`

> * `groupchat`: `bot` 

Reviewer: Could you please change this to table format? 

Name | Type | Maximum size | Required | Description
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
team | string |   |   | When   the install scope selected is Team, this field specifies the default   capability available. Options: tab, bot or connector
groupchat | string |   |   | When   the install scope selected is GroupChat, this field specifies the default   capability available. Options: tab, bot or connector
meetings | string |   |   | When   the install scope selected is Meetings, this field specifies the default   capability available. Options: tab, bot or connector

```

***

## defaultInstallScope

> **Required** - string

Reviewer: Both defaultInstallScope and defaultGroupCapability are optional properties.

It helps you to specify the default install scopes for the apps that you publish.

| **Name** | **Type** | **Maximum size** | **Required** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|------------------|--------------|-----------------|

> | `enum` | array of strings | 4 | ✔ | Specifies whether the scope offers an experience in the context of an individual user alone (personal), a team, a groupchat, or meetings.|

Reviewer: defaultInstallScope is not an array field, it's a string.

> | `description` | string | 128 characters | ✔ | The description that appears to users to indicate the purpose of this command. | 

Reviewer: Description is not available as property to set by developer, it's actually part of manifest schema definition.

## defaultGroupCapability

**Required** - object

Specifies the default capability for each collaboration scope your app supports.

| **Name** | **Type** | **Maximum size** | **Required** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|------------------|--------------|-----------------|

> | `properties` | string | 128 characters | ✔ | Specifies the default install scope, that is, team, groupchat, or meetings and the capability, that is, bot, tab, or connector available with the selected scope, and its description.|

Reviewer: Please update this section to document the supported fields i.e.  groupchat, meetings and team each can have one of the following property set: tab, bot, connector. 

Ex: 
"defaultGroupCapability": {"groupchat": "bot" , "meetings": "tab" , "team": "bot"}

```

***

## defaultInstallScope

**Required** - string

It helps you to specify the default install scopes for the apps that you publish.

| **Name** | **Type** | **Maximum size** | **Required** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|------------------|--------------|-----------------|
| `enum` | array of strings | 4 | ✔ | Specifies whether the scope offers an experience in the context of an individual user alone (personal), a team, a groupchat, or meetings.|
| `description` | string | 128 characters | ✔ | The description that appears to users to indicate the purpose of this command. | 

## defaultGroupCapability

**Required** - object

> It provides the default capability that is added to the team, groupchat, or meetings. Choose a tab, bot, or connector as the default capability for your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the default capability for each collaboration scope your app supports.
```
Suggested revision.

| **Name** | **Type** | **Maximum size** | **Required** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|------------------|--------------|-----------------|
| `properties` | string | 128 characters | ✔ | Specifies the default install scope, that is, team, groupchat, or meetings and the capability, that is, bot, tab, or connector available with the selected scope, and its description.|
| `description` | string | 128 characters | ✔ | Defines the default capability when the user installs the app. |

> | `additionalProperties` | boolean | | | Indicates if additional properties are required. Default: **false** | 

Reviewer 2: A few comments here:

- For `properties`, it seems like we could make the description more concise.
- Is the `description` value something end users would see? It's not clear what this config does.
- We need to describe in more detail what `additionalProperties` are.

Author: Hi @heath-hamilton - I have reached out to Wajeed for inputs / clarification on the schema elements for defaultInstallScope.
